---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

**Various ways that I would like to contribute to one or more open source projects**

The various ways that I would like to contribute to one or more Open Source projects during the course of this semester include submitting bug reports, suggesting new features and options, and making comments on how to improve the quality of the program. I would also like to work on making more contributions to projects with code; including, but not limited to, bug fixes and adding new features. I believe that working in Open Source is extremely beneficial. Other than the satisfaction of making a contribution to a project, there are benefits towards my skills, career, and personal network. Benefits to my skills include enhanced communication and collaboration. Working in Open Source will facilitate the way I communicate and collaborate with others in the community in order to achieve an optimal result. I will learn how to clearly convey my opinions and ideas whilst listening to the opinions and ideas of others. Additionally, working in Open Source will have benefits towards my career. Simply by making contributions towards an Open Source project, I will be demonstrating my skills, showing that I am competent for the project at hand, and having my work documented for whoever may want to take a look. Furthermore, it will show that I am able to work in a team and get along with people. These skills and qualities will directly reflect how I will fit into, and contribute to, a work environment. In terms of benefits towards my social network, I believe that working on Open Source projects will facilitate conversations with other contributors and users. I will be able to grow my network due to having open discussions with others who have the same passion and drive towards achieving an optimal result of a project as I do. I will also be able to have discussions with other contributors on developing better practices and planning what contributions can be done. Additionally, I will be able to discuss with users ways in which the project can be improved. All in all, from preparation, I believe that I will develop better communication and social skills, I will be able to use the practices I have learned in a work environment to demonstrate my skills as an employee, and also be able to use the practices I have learned in order to make more significant contributions towards more Open Source projects.
