---
layout: post
title: Week 8
---

<h2>Week 8 Blog</h2>

<h3>Progress on Gatsby Project:</h3>

**_Installing the Development Environment:_**
<br>
I have set up (**successfully**) both "Docs only changes" and "Gatsby functional changes" so that I can begin working on issues on Gatsby!

**_Issues I am Considering:_**
<br>
I am still interested in working on the following issues that I stated in last week's blog:
   * [Issue #13708](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/13708)
   * [Issue #21775](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/21775)
   * [Issue #21852](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/21852)
   
I am particularly interested in:
   * [Issue #21852](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/21852)

I am extremely interested in this issue because it seems like it is an issue that I, a beginner, will be able to work on. Adding on to that aspect, this issue has also sparked my attention. I love writing, however I also want to be able to articulate my thoughts and opinions better, thus I feel that this issue will push me to expand on how I am able to discuss and document code. I also feel that this issue will get me comfortable with interacting and working in the Gatsby community in order to make contributions, as well as facilitate my learning process on how the project works.

<h3>Thoughts on the Effect of the Current Pandemic:</h3>

**_How it Has Changed Things For Me:_**
<br>
 * Transitioning from busy twelve hour school days and eight hour work days to now solely working from home and particpating in school remotely feels extremely strange. I can solely hang out with my friends through a phone screen, listen to my professors' lectures through my computer, and communicate with my coworkers via Slack. Although I am capable of working from the comfort of my own bed, it is not the same. Due to the circumstances that we are currently under, I have both school and work restructuring plans, as well as, the way in which we will continue to interact on a daily basis. As an individual who thrives off of productivity and social interaction, this week has been significantly impactful for me. My emotions surrounding this trying time come in waves; one minute I feel a sense of comfort being at home and keeping myself, and others, safe, the next minute, I am thrust into an immense state of shock and disbelief. The rapid spread, and effect, of COVID-19 feels as though we are living through a nightmare; when in fact, we are living through a section in future history textbooks. I fear that I will find myself bored, unmotivated, and struggling during this time. However, I am someone who almost always attempts to look on the brightside. I would like to believe this can be a time for myself, and others, to grow. A time to look towards our community with kindness and compassion. A time to self-reflect, do things we almost never have the time to do, and focus on the people and things that are most important to us.

**_How I Believe Things Will Be in 4 Weeks:_**
<br>
 * In four weeks, I would like to believe that things would feel more settled. By this time, we will get used to interacting through social distancing. I think that work and school will operate more smoothly since we will have time to adjust to the transition. Furthermore, I believe I will get into the routine of being remote and be able to work productively. I can imagine I may become bored, however, I am hoping to use this time to practice solving coding challenges, watching movies, reading books, and doing more things I have been too busy to do in the past year. In terms of the virus, I believe it is possible that we may have it contained in the United States by then, but I do think the numbers will continue going up if we do not take action. Implementing something similar to a shelter-in-place may be the best option: this may allow us to contain the virus and give us a chance at going back to normalcy at a sooner date.

**_How I Believe Things Will Be in 8 Weeks:_**
<br>
 * In eight weeks, I would like to believe that the fear surrounding COVID-19 would have started to subside. I would like to believe that we would be slowly working our way towards normalcy again. I think that it is possible that small gatherings and cautiousness will be the starting point to re-integrating into life again. As I will be ending school and my internship in around two months, I am hoping to have learned and grown a lot. I hope I will be able to use and apply everything that I will be doing within the next few weeks onwards into summer and life.


<h3>Research I Have Done This Week/Contributions:</h3>

I have continued reading a lot of articles on Open Source this week! These articles included ones such as [How Open-Source Projects Are Driving Innovation In Tech](https://www.forbes.com/sites/quora/2020/03/21/how-open-source-projects-are-driving-innovation-in-tech/#12d407657a81) and [Open-source project spins up 3D-printed ventilator validation prototype in just one week](https://techcrunch.com/2020/03/19/open-source-project-spins-up-3d-printed-ventilator-validation-prototype-in-just-one-week/).
<p>I have also made numerous contributions to OpenStreetMap, my peers' blogs, and Wikipedia! I will continue to make contributions throughout this following week.</p>
