---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

**Throughout this week, I began searching for Open Source projects:**

**_Through my research, the projects I looked at included:_**
  * [Pagan](https://github.com/daboth/pagan)
  * [Magenta](https://github.com/tensorflow/magenta)
  * [VisPy](https://github.com/vispy/vispy)
  * [Quil](https://github.com/quil/quil)
  * [Bokeh](https://github.com/bokeh/bokeh)
  * [Jupyter](https://github.com/jupyterhub/jupyterhub)

**_Out of these, there were a few that I eliminated:_**
  * **_Pagan:_** For this project, there are currently only 53 commits and 1 issue. They have extremely detailed and helpful labels but there is no community activity at all in regards to responsiveness and welcomeness. Since there is little activity, it would be extremely difficuly to make active contributions or be a part of a community that wants to actively work towards the optimal result of a project. Therefore, I did not believe that I should continue looking into this specific project.
  
  * **_VisPy:_** For this project, despite there being over 6,000 commits, over 300 issues, and an active community where discussions are constantly taking place, I did not feel like this project was right for me. Although I wanted it to be a right fit, I did not feel like this project sparked my interest in ways that other projects have.
  
  * **_Quil:_** Despite Quil catching my attention, it also had to be eliminated from my list. This project has a little over 1,000 commits, only over 20 issues, and 1 pull request. Furthermore, there are tags, however there are no issues that are for newcomers. Due to the little project activity in conjunction with the incompatibility in what I am searching for in issue tracking, I had to eliminate this project from my list.

**_There are a few that are still candidates:_**
  * **_Magenta:_** Magenta is a "research project exploring the role of machine learning in the process of creating art and music." This directly correlates with my interests and seems like a project I would love to be a part of. There are over 1,000 commits, over 200 issues, and numerous pull requests. There are labels and they are extremely detailed and helpful. Although the over 1,000 commits is a seemingly small number, I believe it can imcrease with the right community involvement. Thus, the only major downside to this project is that there is little community responsiveness and welcomeness. It would be extremely hard to contribute when there are not others who are actively involved in the betterment of this project.
  
  * **_Bokeh:_** Bokeh is "is an interactive visualization library for modern web browsers." Bokeh aligns with my interests and it feels like the type of project I would enjoy working on and be invested in. This project has over 18,000 commits, over 400 issues, and a plethora of tags and labels that would allow contributors to sort through what issue they would like to work on. Although there is community involvement, it is not as much as I would like and definitely not as much as I have seen in other projects I have researched.
  
  * **_Jupyter:_** Jupyter "exists to develop open-source software, open-standards, and services for interactive computing across dozens of programming languages." The project has over 4,000 commits, over 300 issues, and numerous detailed labels to sort through. I believe that this can be considered a candidate because it is apparent that it is an active project. However, it seems as though there is little community involvement in terms of responsiveness and welcomeness. Furthermore, I do not think that Jupyter catches my attention as much as I would like it to. I believe that there are other projects that spark my interest signficantly more.

**_However, there is a specific one that looks promising to me:_**
  - **_Bokeh:_** I believe that Bokeh looks the most promising to me because it is able to combine my interests along with meeting expectations as to what to look for in an Open Source Project. It is apparent that it has a high level of project activity and issue tracking, showcasing that individuals are interested and invested in the project. Although there could be more community activity, I am content with the community welcomeness and responsiveness that I have seen in the discussions.
  
  
**Research I Have Done This Week:**

I am looking into the project _Magenta_ because it taught my eye since reading about it. Therefore, most of research has been reading on this project and learning more about it.
