---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---


**_What skills do I have that would be useful for contributing to a FOSS project?_**

  - **Communication and Interpersonal Skills:** One significant skill that I have that would be useful for contributing to a FOSS project is open and concise communication. I believe that communication is a valuable and imperative skill when it comes to achieving the optimal result of a project. With this skill I will be able to effectively discuss a FOSS project with other contributors and users. Furthermore, I will be able to clearly and thoroughly describe, and express, any contributions I make, whether it be reporting a bug or submitting an idea. Being able to communicate with others whilst working on a project will help other contributors and users understand your thoughts, opinions, and what you are trying to achieve in order to improve the project.
  
  - **Creativity and Critical Thinking:** Two other skills that I possess that I believe would be useful for contributing to a FOSS project are creativity and critical thinking. I believe that creativity and critical thinking work in conjunction and can be useful for contributing to a FOSS project when one needs to think outside of the box in order to improve the project. I especially believe that these skills come into use when suggesting new features and options, finding and fixing bugs, improving code, and helping write good documentation by correcting spelling and grammar mistakes.


**_What things are the most interesting to me? What do I enjoy doing?_**

  - **_Education and Projects:_**
    - <p> I love learning any and all information. Whatever the subject may be I have a passion for learning about anything that I can possibly learn about. Aside from computer science, I have taken classes in music, media, women and gender studies, and numerous others. I find myself always looking up books and articles online in order to learn more. </p>
    - I love working on projects, whether they be personal or with a group. I enjoy being able to learn new coding languages and create projects tailored to things that interest me. My favorite project, and one I feel very proud of thus far, is a group project called _Scheduler App_, it is an iOS application where users will be able to manage their schedules, merge schedules with friends, and receive reminders on important events. Although the app is in the making, I am invested in the idea that my team and I have for the project and I genuinely enjoy the collaboration between us.</p>
  
  - **_Art:_**
  Most things that I find interesting generally fall under the term: the arts. When I think of the arts, I immediately think about:
    - Music
    - Movies
    - Books
    - Paintings
    - Dance
    
  <p>I not only love viewing these things--as one would watch a movie or go to a museum to see artwork--but I also love partaking in these activities. I love making music, painting on a new canvas, and even taking up various dance classes.</p>

  - <p> Particularly though, I believe that open souce software will allow me to expand on my artwork. As I have found, Quil, which is an open source software, is a Clojure/ClojureScript library for creating interactive drawings and animations. I believe that as I continue to look into open source relating to art, I will be able to find numerous different projects which will allow me to experiment with my art and draw in curiosity towards different open source projects.</p>
  
**_Research I Have Done This Week:_**
  <p> I mostly researched various FOSS projects. One site that showcased numerous FOSS projects and that I genuinely found interesting was https://medium.com/@likid_geimfari/the-list-of-interesting-open-source-projects-2daaa2153f7c. </p>
