---
layout: post
title: Week 9
---

<h2>Week 9 Blog</h2>

<h3>Thoughts on "Why to Report Bugs":</h3>
After reading the article "They Might Never Tell You It’s Broken," I concur with the writer's view that bugs need to be reported and would further add that it is imperative that those in the open-source community feel encouraged to report them. In the article, the writer points out three main reasons as to why they believe individuals do not report bugs, including: the assumption that the bug has already been reported, the feeling of confusion/embarrassment to reach out, and the lack of investment in the project. I fully support the writer's rationale behind this. As a first-time contributor, and someone who also tends to look for projects to use in their free time, I believe I am capable of putting myself in the shoes of these users. I am able to understand from the user perspective how individuals are sometimes quick to dismiss bugs or assume that an issue has already been reported. Additionally, I am also able to emphasize those who are hesitant to ask for help due to the factors of intimidation or supposing that the issue falls on the individual and not on the project itself. As the writer suggests, I believe that having a welcoming and evident message in the README which states that the community is receptive to and encourages bug reports, will signficantly increase the chances of these bugs being reported. Furthermore, I believe that if contributors and users are able to establish a more communicative relationship in an open-source then users will feel more inclined to discuss bugs that they have found and improvements in the project that can be made.

<h3>Thoughts on investigating Wikipedia's pages:</h3>

**_What I Have Found/Discovered:_**
<br>

**_What I Found Difficult:_**
<br>

<h3>Thoughts on the Visit by Kevin Fleming:</h3>

**_What I Learned:_**
<br>

**_What Was Unexpected:_**
<br>

<h3>Progress on Gatsby Project:</h3>

**_Issue I Have Chosen:_**
<br>
Issue I was interested in working on last week:
   * [Issue #21852](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/21852)

Last week I was particularly interested in the above issue, _however_, since then I have changed my mind. As I continued my research into the tickets that Gatsby had to offer, I found other issues that seemed more suitable for me. The more I read about the above ticket, the more daunting it seemed. The issue asked for walkthroughs, as well as, a guide in the options one would have for using various methods for creating relationships between data. Although I would not have minded putting in the work, I grew nervous that it would become overwhelming and I would not know how to discuss everything that was expected of this ticket. After more research, I read that the individual who opened the issue stated they were an intermediate Gatsby user and had difficulty understanding how some of the methods worked. Therefore, after careful evaluation, I shifted my attention to another issue.

Issue I will begin working on:
   * [Issue #22446](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/issues/22446)

I have decided to work on this ticket because it seems suitable for a beginner and still has the aspect of documentation/writing that I wanted out of an issue. The ticket summary is concise and has references to other issues and Gatsby website links in order to point me in the direction of how I should start researching for this ticket. I am confident that with the right amount of work, I will be able to resolve this ticket. In order to notify the user that I am interested in the ticket, I left a comment on the issue asking if I could open up a pull request in order to begin working on it. I will continue to detail my progress as I hear back and begin my journey as a first-time Gatsby contributor!


<h3>Research I Have Done This Week/Contributions:</h3>

I have continued reading articles on Open Source this week! My favorite one that I came across was [Elizabeth Warren for President open-sources its 2020 campaign tech](https://techcrunch.com/2020/03/29/warren-open-source-campaign-tech/). I thought it was extremely attention-catching and I was amazed by the Warren for President Tech Team's ideals! The Tech Team discussed that they wished to open-source many of the top apps and digitals tools that they created in the Democratic campaign for Elizabeth Warren in order to help other candidates. They are encouraging the use of these ideas and code in order to strengthen future candidate campaigns and help these candidates win!
<p>I have made contributions Wikipedia this week and established which issue I would like to begin working on in Gatsby! I will continue to make contributions throughout this following week.</p>
